This is February the 15th, sitting in the beautiful living room at 3007 Aztec.
3009.
3009 Aztec with Bob Boone.
Bob, test yours.
Testing, one, two, three, four.
Bob, for the sake of a stranger in future years who might listen to this tape or read the transcription,
Would you describe your background, where you grew up, and your experience before you first came to A&M?
OK.
I was born and partially raised in Baltimore, Maryland.
My parents were divorced when I was like two years old.
And my father got custody of me, so I went to live with an aunt who actually became more my mother than my mother.
I grew up in Mount Airy, Maryland, through the sixth grade.
And then my father had remarried, and I went to Baltimore for a year and lived with them.
Went to public school there, Forest Park, Baltimore, which was a Jewish community, actually.
So we enjoyed all the Jewish holidays.
Then I went to West Nottingham Academy.
Well, I went one year to Bel Air High School in Baltimore, too.
But then I went to West Nottingham Academy, which was a boys prep school, the oldest boys prep school in the United States, a Presbyterian school.
And our headmaster was J. Paul Slabaugh.
I'll never forget him.
He called him Pop.
Graduated there, enlisted in the hospital corps because I had every intention of becoming a doctor.
And then after I was in and went through boot camp and in the hospital corps as a junior medic, they attached me to the Fleet Marine Force.
where I was a medic in the Marine Corps, which was a very difficult time because we wore Marine Corps uniforms and had to wear Navy insignia on them.
And the Marines and the Navy did not get along very well in those days.
But spent some time overseas, came back finally after three years, four months, and two days, and got out.
And during the time I was in, though, in the service, I met my wife, my first wife, Audrey.
I was aboard the carrier USS Saipan, and we, at that time, were training pilots
for carrier landings off of Pensacola.
And during one year, I forget which year it was actually now, but we came up, it was a small carrier, and we came up the ship channel, believe it or not, in Houston, literally could reach out off the hangar deck and touch ground, touch land.
But we turned around in the turning basin in Houston and stayed there for a week, for Navy week.
And I met Audrey during that week at one of the Navy mother's dances.
And we continued corresponding thereafter.
I went back to Camp Lejeune in North Carolina, and I had no real family in Maryland anymore, other than aunts and uncles.
My father had died when I was 14.
That's one reason I went back to West Nottingham Academy.
It was a boarding school.
And worked my way through there, by the way, waiting tables and singing songs in a waiter's trio.
Went back to Maryland and really didn't have any reason to stay there.
And Audrey was in Houston at the time.
So I came down here in December.
We married on January the 3rd.
And I started University of Houston January the 15th.
And I started as a pre-med student.
I went three years, three and a half years as a pre-med student.
And I was doing very well.
I had a little trouble with quantitative chemistry.
But otherwise, it was going fine.
But I suddenly realized, and of course, I was carrying on jobs, two or three jobs simultaneously.
and doing all the musicals at the university.
It was natural for me to do that because I'd been singing all my life and playing trombone.
Anyway, I realized suddenly that it was gonna take me 12 more years to have a family and a home.
And I wanted that more dearly than I wanted to be a doctor.
So I switched majors.
And in the meantime, I got orders, it was during the Korean conflict then,
They were short of medics then.
I got orders to come back as a medic for the Marine Corps.
Well, I got an extension for the birth of my son, Ricky.
He was born the 4th of July, 1951.
I got that extension.
Then I got another extension to graduate in August of that summer.
Knowing I had my orders, I hadn't bothered to look for a job or do anything.
I was ready to go back in.
Well, so happens, they canceled my orders without me getting notified.
We went down to New Orleans to the Naval Headquarters and found that out.
And there I was without anything and a new baby and everything, you know, just loaded.
Anyway, Les Richardson, who was the superintendent of schools here at that time,
Came down to Houston to the placement center for interviews and he interviewed me on Saturday and I came to work on Monday, the following Monday.
At what is now at A&M?
A&M Consolidated High School, Elementary School.
It was all now where the conference center is on George Bush Boulevard.
The big yellow brick building was the high school, then the junior high and the elementary schools were all frame buildings.
south of that main building.
The superintendent's office was in there and everything.
But I started that job in 1951, August of 1951, and I stayed there for seven years.
What was the starting pay?
$210 a month.
A little over $2,400 a year.
It was scary.
And Audrey and I, again, with a new baby.
But, you know, as I look back now, Audrey and I talked about this many times before she died.
Those were some, really, probably some of the happiest years of our lives.
But I'll never forget the first day I brought her up here from Houston.
Highway 6 was what would now be considered a single lane of the highway.
Oh, she was so scared because she had been a city girl most of her life.
Anyway, I taught there.
band, choir and drama.
Les hired me to start the choral program.
Colonel Dunn who had retired from A&M was doing the band there.
I think he had like 14 kids in the band.
And he'd go to football games and play things like the Nutcracker Suite you know.
Well the kids didn't really enjoy that and neither did the people at the games.
But he's the man who taught me how to conduct right-handed.
I'm a left-handed person and I'd conduct left-handed.
Well it's like doing it in the mirror, it's backwards to an old group.
But he made me put my left hand in my pocket and conduct the band and everything else that I did.
We finally had, and I of course did all the plays and dramas, Wynike plays.
Actually we won a state contest in UIL with the Wynike play.
Bill Hite.
About your first years.
About how many seniors were there?
That'll tell about the size of the high school.
At the high school.
Have any idea what the size was?
Not more than 14, 15.
When I came, it was a C school, class C school.
And then we quickly went to A.
Fred Anderson you may know, Dr. Fred Anderson, was a quarterback on one of the first football teams when I was there.
Jimmy Bond was one of the first people I ever gave a solo to in a musical play.
A lot of the kids, some of them are still rare and all retiring.
Anyway I taught there seven years.
It just got too much.
I was in school from like 6 o'clock in the morning until 10 or 11 o'clock at night with rehearsals and so forth.
And it just got overloaded.
So I went to El Campo, Texas for two years, and there only did choir and drama and speech.
Didn't have band.
They had a great band director there.
Then we had another baby.
We had Walter.
It seemed like every time I'd change jobs, we'd have another baby.
The doctor said it was my fault.
Then we stayed there two years and moved back here
Well, actually, Bill Turner had been directing The Sync Adits at that time for six, I think he was a total of 16 years.
And he then was going to Stephen F. Austin in Nacogdoches as head of the music department.
And Mrs. Rudder called me in El Campo.
I taught their kids, her kids, the generals and hers in high school here.
And she said, Bob Owen, get your buns up here.
It's just the way she said it.
And I said, yes, ma'am.
And I came up and interviewed with J. Wayne Stark, who was then director of the Memorial Student Center.
and went to work as a student advisor at the Memorial Student Center, director of the Singing Cadets, and director of the A&M Methodist Church Choir.
Those two jobs, because Bill had had them both,
We're tied together.
If you did one, you did the other.
So I stayed at that church for 10 years.
What was the seeing cadet compensation when you started?
Do you remember?
Yeah, I started for $6,000.
And what year was that?
60.
There were 6,000 students.
No, I started for 6,600.
I'm sorry.
There were 6,000 students, all male, all core.
And the Rudders?
Some grad students.
The Rudders had only been here about a year, so they were comparatively new.
Well, they'd been here a little longer than I because I taught their kids in high school.
You were how long at El Campo?
Two years?
Seven.
Yeah, two years.
Oh, okay.
All right.
I was through, well, 57 through 59.
Because I came here in August of 70.
Okay.
That's 60, excuse me.
August of 60.
Right.
And administratively, the singing cadets were a part of the MSC.
They were, quote, student activity.
So on paper, you reported to Wayne Stark.
Right.
And...
I was the advisor to Town Hall, which now has become Opus because in those days we had Town Hall which did both classical and popular programs in G. Raleigh White.
We did the musicals.
We still did some of the summer musicals in Guyon Hall.
It was still there.
The only thing that bothered us there was the squeaky wooden chairs during a performance, people moving around.
As you began, did anyone describe for you what your duties and responsibilities were?
And if so, can you summarize those?
Well, Wayne was my boss.
He was the boss.
I was to take care of any musical activities that had to do with the Memorial Student Center and the student body other than band.
Now Bill Turner had also directed the Aggieland Dance Band and I did that for about six years.
Excuse me.
But we had a music committee at MSC which
I began through the browsing library where we brought in recorded music for people to listen to.
We had practice rooms in the old MSC, and this was the old MSC, because we used to have muster, for instance, on the front lawn of the Memorial Student Center, and stand on those steps facing the sun.
This thing you guys would have to stay there, and I'd have guys pass out doing the thing, because we stood there the whole time.
We didn't have a chance to sit down.
That entrance is now covered and gone.
I did...
We started what we called the basement committee, which in those days the guys didn't have anywhere to go much on weekends.
And so we started a club down under the building.
The floor was dirt.
The foundation was, the columns were, we were among the columns, so to speak, and we decorated it.
And we'd have, on Saturday nights, we'd have a nightclub kind of thing.
We'd serve Cokes and stuff, and popcorn, free.
And we'd have entertainers, student entertainers come in.
So it was a good chance for them to get some exposure.
Let's see, back to beginning.
Did you come over and you interviewed with Wayne Stark?
Did you have the impression that others were being considered...
Oh, yeah.
I forget the sequence there, but I came and was interviewed by Wayne.
And it was like probably three weeks, four weeks before I got notification, yes, you've been hired, blah, blah, blah.
Come on up.
And luckily, my wife and I, Audrey and I, had not sold the house that we had lived in.
When we left here, we were renting it, and it was on Park Place, just a little matchbox thing that we had added a room on.
But it had been built during the Second World War by students out of scrap lumber.
Anyway, we felt very fortunate to have that to come back to, but we only stayed there.
another year after we got back and bought the house that we then lived in on Armistead, which was a great location because it was right off the golf course and easy to get to.
And that's where I used to train, drill my A&M consolidated band.
It was a Dobovani property and we'd walk through cow pads where we drilled in the afternoons.
As a newcomer,
who had not graduated from the Agricultural Mechanical College of Texas, did you early on encounter any difficulties or kind of stares that you might be an outsider?
No, no, not ever once.
See, I'd been here seven years.
And during those seven years, I used to invite
the sing cadets the agonizer quartet over to the high school because I was trying to recruit guys in my music program there you know and Betty Bolander who used to work for Bill Turner as his accompanist and I and we do summer musicals I did the summer musical the Mikado with Bill and Betty you know out in the Grove and
So I was coming home, more or less.
It felt that way.
And you were thorough... As you know, you can't live in this community without maroon blood, you know.
Sure.
And you were, then you were quite well...
informed about Aggie traditions and how to do this and that?
Oh, some.
Not totally.
I mean, for instance, I didn't know about the tradition within the singing cadets that they had to answer specific questions as a new member in order.
They were kind of on probation when they first got in.
We called them bufos.
What would be some of those questions?
Well, they would all be campusology questions.
They had to memorize what was on some statues around campus and on cornerstones and things like that.
When such and such was built, you know.
Was this more intense than the average freshman cadet?
Yeah, I think so.
Of course, we got criticized for it by some of the administration for having to do that.
And for the guys, we started what we called the Bufo program in about 64.
Because you see, when I came, it was all core.
It stopped being all-core.
We started getting non-regs in.
Some veterans coming back, all kinds of things.
And so we wanted them to earn, quote, the right to be in the Singing Cadets other than just a vocal audition.
And so we had them wear a key.
We had Charlie Myers built or designed this logo that we used, this scene cadet logo.
And we had them start wearing keys with that on it.
And they had, the point was to get every other man's signature in the group so they get to meet each other.
And it was PR.
you know, for the group.
But mainly it was a fellowshipping kind of purpose.
And we got, boy, we got severely criticized for that after a while.
You know, you're embarrassing our students, blah, blah, blah.
Well, they weren't embarrassed.
They were having a ball doing it.
And they were getting to know the other men in the group.
And that was the point.
That was the whole point.
But we couldn't get anybody to explain that.
Were there as you began were there any I'll call them traditional were were there traditional events where the singing cadets were expected to be At a certain place to do certain things well certainly Aggie muster musters here I Started well even that first year
uh singing commencement as a soloist you know leading the spirit um and a lot of people didn't know that there were two verses to the war hymns so we took that upon ourselves as a project
to try to teach everybody the first and second verse to the war hymn.
Because the first verse doesn't talk about TU, but the second one does.
And I told the guys, well they get enough publicity, we don't need help to give them any.
And by the way, and the words to the spirit were changed, and I didn't do that.
Pinky,
Not Pinky Downs.
Oh, gosh, I forget his name now.
But the writer of it changed the words.
You know, when we say we are from Texas, AMU now, it used to be AMC, of course.
And he changed that when we became a university to fit the situation.
The Aggies are true.
We are from Texas, AMU.
And boy, did I get flack when that happened.
Everybody thought I just arbitrarily did that.
And I didn't do it.
And I have his letter to prove that he did it.
I forget what year that was.
We didn't actually change it until about the words until about a half a year, a year after the fact.
After the name was changed.
After the name was changed, right.
Well, let's see back to what I was supposed to do.
I was in charge of the Aggie talent show.
I was in charge of the intercollegiate talent show.
That's where we used to go up to TSCW and pick an Aggie sweetheart in those days.
And we'd go up there for a couple of days, then they'd come down here for five days.
It was a ball.
That was all through student government.
And I was the advisor to student government in those days.
I was kind of a jack of all trades.
I was advisor for several of the classes.
Then I began teaching a class in music appreciation, Humanities 201.
And I started with one section and got it built up to six sections.
And I couldn't do all that by myself.
And besides, Texas A&M or the Cine Cadets were becoming more and more busy.
I mean, we were doing an average of 40, 50, 60 shows a year.
When you began, about how many shows a year?
The first year I was here, I was just looking at it the other night.
We did 27 and that included the Christmas program, muster, some banquets at MSC, very little out of town that first year.
What kind of uniforms were they wearing when you began?
Basically the same kind of uniform they're wearing now except that it was black.
Now they wear, it's a navy blue they wear.
They're almost Air Force blue.
And a maroon bow tie.
Right.
White shirt.
And how that all came about, the year before I came here, T.L.
Smith from Columbus donated the whole set of uniforms to the scene cadets.
And, of course, that was the year...
Bill left, Bill Turner.
But prior to that, before they got those uniforms, they wore core uniforms.
And the seniors always were on the front row with their boots.
And that was the hierarchy in the Syncanets when I came.
It was strictly a class hierarchy.
The seniors were in command.
They were in charge.
And they made sure the freshmen shaped up and learned the music.
I mean, I remember I was kind of in a state of shock when I first came here.
I'd walk into the music hall.
We rehearsed on the second floor.
And after it was condensed six times, we moved out, but then moved into G. Riley White.
But I remember that first year I'd come in many afternoons or after rehearsal.
And they'd have, the seniors would have some freshman fish braced, boy, against the wall and really chewing them out, I mean, up one side and down the other.
And having been in the Marine Corps, I was used to that kind of activity, but I didn't expect any of it.
You know, it was funny.
But I got used to it, and we actually, that's why we started the Bufo program in 64, because we lost, it wasn't all corps anymore.
And so we lost that hierarchy, we lost that chain of command.
And so we had to have old men, quote, old men and Bufos.
And of course, Bufos is the Italian word in opera for comic, or
That's B-U-F-O?
B-U-F-F-O.
Two Fs.
UFO.
As you began, could you characterize the senior cadets by where they were from in terms of background and their majors here and so forth?
Well, kind of.
I have the impression that they were all country boys.
They say it was a country boy college, poor boy school, blah, blah, blah.
But they were all ageing in engineering, very few in education, very few then.
Later it became more prevalent.
I have so many guys who had graduated from St.
Cadets who went out and became pastors, preachers, and doctors.
Of course, they couldn't do that here.
But lots of doctors and dentists and preachers and even some choir directors.
But for most of them, it truly was an avocation, a joy.
Oh, definitely.
Definitely.
They were there because they loved to be there.
They loved to sing.
They loved to perform.
They took great pride in representing Texas A&M.
I mean, that was their thing.
Had there been tryouts in years before you got here?
Yes.
How did you?
I continued them.
We'd have auditions.
at the beginning of each semester, and I'd have them sing Home on the Range.
And that became a kind of joke, but that's what it did, because it has a good range in it, and if they could sing that, and most of them kind of knew it before they came to audition, you know, they had sung that as a kid in school or somewhere.
Do you know the last name of the man who wrote that?
Uh, uh, Ewing?
Ewing?
All right, either the words or... Guyon.
Guyon, Guyon, Guyon, Guyon.
Same family as Guyon Hall.
Right, right.
But they used that, and then I'd have them attempt to sight-read something.
And some of them could.
I mean, some of them were instrumentalists in their high school band or somewhere.
And they could read pretty well.
Some of them, as we went along, we began to get some All-State type people, UIL All-State people.
But most of them were not readers.
Some of them were not even good singers.
But if they exhibited to me any sort of spirit and enthusiasm, that organization needed that, not just good singers.
So we had, we've
The average round number in the group was 60, but it varied from year to year.
That's why we had auditions twice a year.
The first semester we'd have auditions and we'd lose some guys at the end of the semester, either through great grades because they had to maintain their grades or graduation or they quit school or whatever.
And so we'd have auditions the second semester, but the big audition time was in the fall, and we'd take probably at the second audition session, maybe half as many as we took in the fall session.
And most of them, most of them stayed three years, four years.
Do you remember in your early years, as you now look back, any missteps you made in terms of an old-time Aggie?
Is there anything where you blundered?
Well, usually as we traveled, we traveled in two chartered buses.
And bus one was the quiet bus, because that's the one I rode.
And it's a steady bus.
Or they might play checkers or something.
But I always sat in the front seat, and I never turned around.
I just never saw what was going on.
But bus two was another story.
I mean, we'd look out the rear view windows on the side of the bus, and bus two would be coming down the highway rocking silent.